Hi guys and welcome back to this email because so right before talking about the transformer we'll see
how we used to address the sequence to sequence tasks before so all the tasks where we need to predict
the whole text or a whole sentence from a text or a sentence that we are given.
For instance this could be text summarization or translation Chad.
What's all this kind of stuff and we'll see how this led to the transformer.
So what we have mostly been doing to address those task is to use a pair of what we call encoder and
decoder.
So this encoder here is what is supposed to summarize all the information that we wanted to use from
the input sentence and the Dakota will use as inputs the output of the encoder in order to create the
right outputs and a natural way to do that was to use the R and ends so recurrent neural networks and
the way those are and ends work is the following so we have a cell that takes as inputs the output of
the produced cell and the next word from the input sentence and it computes the next what we call hidden
states.
The important point is that all of those cells are identical and they do exactly the same job.
It's just that we feed them with new words from the input sentence each time and so it learns more and
more about the whole input sequence.
So this is why we call that recommend neural networks because there is this cell that is repeated as
many times as needed which is actually the length of the input sentence and we actually do exactly the
same for the decoder.
We have a new cell that would be repeats until we reach the end of the decoding phase and this cell
is different from the encoding one.
But of course it's the same to the whole decoding phase and we would have us inputs the hidden state
from the previous cell the previous predicted words.
And we have our eyes outputs the next word that we predicts and a new hidden states.
So a hidden state is just a huge vector or matrix that conveys information and so we add information
to those vector.
Each time we for instance are the new word from the input sentence or each time we predict a new word
for the output sentence and those hidden states those are the information that we are carrying along
to the whole process.
So just to go through all the steps for those are unknowns the first thing we do is to embed the words
into vectors so they can be used more efficiently by all computers by all algorithms.
And so each word now is represented by a vector.
Then we applied what I just explained about the and so we compute a new haven states for all encoder
with the previous hit and states and the new embedded words that comes from the input sequence.
After this whole process has been done with the encoder we have a hidden state that is the output of
the encoder and that is supposed to convey all the information that we wanted to have from the input
sequence and now we can apply the decoder.
Of course in the decoder each cell for the audience are identical but they are different from the cells
from the encoder.
And this is kind of like unrolling the information that we get from the encoder.
It's like in the encoder we made a package adding the new words so new information needs at each step
and at the end we just retrieve a new information at each tape.
A new word that will be a part of the output sequence.
So I won't go into the details of Ivan's words how they are computed how we implement them because you
will see later that we want to need that's for the transformer but it was important to you to see that
because this is the origins of how we do sequence to sequence models and thinking of evolutions of models.
We must be aware of the weaknesses of this model and one of the most important one is that you can see
that we add words one after the other in the encoder.
And so we will certainly lose information from the beginning of the input sentence for each word we
add.
So for very long sequences very long sentences the information will not be complete at the end of the
encoder.
And so when we wants to predict the next words in the decoder we could miss information that has been
lost.
The encoding phase.
So what has been added to the audience in order to address this issue is what we call the attention
mechanism.
So basically what it does is that during the decoding phase we add new inputs to our cells in the Arnon
and we call that the context vector and that's actually a vector that is supposed to convey a global
information about the whole input sequence and more precisely how each step of the input sequence is
related to our current status in the decoding phase.
So let's suppose that we are at this phase right here.
So we just predicted that would she.
We have a hidden state that is G1 and what we would have done before it tests computes a new G do G
to hit and states using as inputs G1 and the previews predicted would she and gets the new word is but
here we add a new input which is this vector C that is as you can see he actually a weighted sum of
all the hidden states from the encoder.
And so the important part is how do we send those Hayden states and we can see it's represented by the
coefficients a 0 a 1 and and so on.
So the intuition behind that is just to assess how G1.
So the current hidden states the current state of the decoder is related to each of the H hidden states.
So how our current decoding phase is related to each of the encoding phase so if we want to get an intuition
of that we could say that's here.
The hidden states G1 is the one that we get just after predicting the world's sheep.
So this state would probably conveys an information like we just declared the subject of the sentence
which is she.
So now we want to we want to know how these hidden states.
So just having declared the subject of the sentence is related to each of those hidden states.
And naturally having declared the subjects would be related to the verb that's is related to the subjects
in the input sentence which is a question in our example.
It's the same process as when we speak just after saying she we know that's our current state of speaking
is related to the verb that the other person just used to talk about she.
So if the person in front of you said how is she just after saying she you know you have to react to
the verb is.
So that's globally how the attention mechanism works here in the R.A. and if you want to go into mathematical
details we would just say that.
See I.
That's the context vector that we want to feed the cell number I with.
So these being G I minus 1 and he G I.
So this is just a way to sum all of all the hidden states from the encoder.
So basically each number of for i j just say how much we wanted to emphasize on the hidden state H.J.
when we computes g i so he G2.
So the important part is to create those alpha.
I j.
But basically say how all occur in states that is actually j 1.
So J I minus one is related to each of those hidden states and the way to do that is that we will apply
a soft max function.
So that's just a tool that we use in order to create weights for a weighted sum.
So the coefficients e being the similarity for instance between the state of our decoder and the hidden
states of our encoder e being those coefficients we just computes the alpha in order to keep the relations
between the E.
So if one of these coefficient e is higher of course the corresponding Alpha would be higher too.
But thanks to this operation the s Max the sum will be equal to one and each number will be between
0 and 1.
That actually makes all the alphas value weights that we can use to sum all the hidden states each and
the most important parts D E I J that conveys information about the relation between J A minus one and
each of the h j will just be a function that we can pick actually are different options for that's one
of the most common one is to use that products because the duck predicts that later between two vectors
is a good way to get how similar those vectors are.
But the important thing to keep in mind is that's a supposed to be similarity function.
So if you just repeat this backwards we are at the stage.
For all decoder.
So we are about to predict G I and have already predicted the words I minus 1 and the hidden states
J I minus 1 and so in order to predict this.
This J I will just wants to know how the previous hit in the States which is where we are right now.
J I minus one is related to each of the hidden states of the encoder.
So it's almost like if you are looking for how these words is related to each of the words from the
input sentence and the way to do that is to use a similarity function between the occurrence hidden
states and all of the hidden states of the encoder.
And now that have those similarity weights we just apply a soft Max in order to have real weights that
we can use for a weighted sum and we apply those weights to all of the hidden states of the encoder
to finally have a vector that is mostly made of the Hayden states from the encoder that are related
to our current states in the decoding phase.
So that's basically how the attention mechanism works in the ordinance.
It's just during the decoding phase we simply add a new vector that conveys more global information
about the whole input sequence and this vector changes at each step of the decoding phase so that each
cell of the R and then gets information from the input sequence that is related to the current states.
So that's it for the attention and marginality for how we used to address sequence to sequence task
before.
Now we have all the bases to talk about the transformer and that's exactly what we will do next.
So.